PR: Add more content to IPython console docs and make text more friendly (#213)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/ipythonconsole.rst

IPython Console
###############

The **IPython Console** allows you to execute commands and enter, interact with and visualize data inside `IPython`_ interpreters.

.. _IPython: https://ipython.org/

.. image:: images/console/console-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console with code, inline plots, and the In prompt

To launch a new IPython instance, go to :guilabel:`New console (default settings)` under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu, the :guilabel:`IPython Console` pane menu or its context menu, or use the keyboard shortcut (:kbd:`Ctrl-T` by default).

(Gif with Open Ipython Console)

From any of the three menus, you can stop currently executing code with :guilabel:`Interrupt kernel`, clear a console's namespace with :guilabel:`Remove all variables`, or relaunch a fresh one with :guilabel:`Restart`.
As each Console is executed in a separate process, this won't affect the others or Spyder itself, and you will be able to easily test your code in a clean environment without disrupting your primary session.

.. _connecting-external-kernel:

==================================
Using external kernels with Spyder

> ==================================

Reviewer: As this is an advanced, fairly complex feature, I would suggest moving it to nearer the end, either above or below the UMR section.

Reviewer: This was addressed

Just remember to enter the appropriate details into Spyder's :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog instead of launching a new frontend on the client with ``--existing``.

.. _Connecting to a remote kernel: https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/Cookbook:-Connecting-to-a-remote-kernel-via-ssh

================
Special consoles
================

Spyder also supports several types of specialized consoles.
A `Cython console`_ will allow you to use Cython language to speed up your code and call C functions directly from Python.
A `Sympy console`_ allows creating and displaying symbolic math expressions right inside Spyder.
Finally, a `Pylab console`_ loads common Numpy and Matplotlib functions by default; while this is deprecated and not recommended for new code, it can be used for older scripts that need this.

.. _Cython console: https://cython.org/#documentation
.. _Sympy console: https://docs.sympy.org/latest/index.html
.. _Pylab console: https://matplotlib.org/faq/usage_faq.html#matplotlib-pyplot-and-pylab-how-are-they-related

(Gif opening menu and showing opening one of the special consoles)

.. _console-features:

==================
Supported features

> ==================

Reviewer: As this section lays out the basic features of the normal consoles, as opposed to specialized ones, it should go before the `Special consoles` section

Reviewer: This was addressed

In addition, you can have each console display how long it has been running with :guilabel:`Show elapsed time`.

.. image:: images/console/console-options-menu.png
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console with options menu

You can also change the name of the current :guilabel:`IPython console` tab with the :guilabel:`Rename tab` option, or by simply double-clicking it.

.. image:: images/console/console-rename.gif
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console showing renaming console

.. _connecting-external-kernel:

==================================
Using external kernels with Spyder
==================================

You can connect to external local and remote kernels (including those managed by Jupyter Notebook or QtConsole) through the :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
For this feature to work, a compatible version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package :ref:`must be installed <starting-kernel-problems-ref>` in the environment or machine in which the external kernel is running.

.. image:: images/console/console-menu.png
   :alt: Connect to external kernel dialog of the Spyder IPython console

Connect to a local kernel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. one started by Jupyter notebook),
> #. Run ``%connect_info`` in the notebook or console you want to connect to, and copy the name of its kernel connection file, shown after ``jupyter <app> --existing``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. one started by Jupyter notebook),

#. Run ``%connect_info`` in the notebook or console you want to connect to, and copy the name of its kernel connection file, shown after ``jupyter <app> --existing``.
```

It seems a line break is missing here because this looks incorrect on Netlify:

![Selección_078](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/365293/102700043-d5962500-4217-11eb-911d-eb2d7d63236a.png)

Reviewer: Yep, good catch. Probably an issue with Github suggestions not getting applied correctly when blank lines are involved.

Reviewer: I'll make sure this is fixed when I push my revisions to this section momentarily.

Reviewer: It was

IPython Console
###############

> The **IPython Console** allows you to execute commands and enter, interact with and visualize data inside `IPython`_ interpreters.

Reviewer: This was from my original and not really any odder syntactically than "interact with" and "visualize", but semantically I suppose the confusing part is the multiple meanings of the word. If its removed, though, it changes the meaning and disrupts the flow of the rest of the sentence, so it needs some reworking:

```suggestion
The **IPython Console** allows you to execute commands and interact with data inside `IPython`_ interpreters.
```

.. _IPython: https://ipython.org/

.. image:: images/console/console-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console with code, inline plots, and the In prompt

> To launch a new IPython instance, go to :guilabel:`New console (default settings)` under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu, the :guilabel:`IPython Console` pane menu or its context menu, or use the keyboard shortcut (:kbd:`Ctrl-T` by default).

Reviewer: Fair enough

.. image:: images/console/console-new.gif
   :alt: Spyder showing opening a new IPython Console

> From any of the three menus, you can stop currently executing code with :guilabel:`Interrupt kernel`, clear a console's namespace with :guilabel:`Remove all variables`, or relaunch a fresh one with :guilabel:`Restart`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the :guilabel:`Consoles` menus, you can stop currently executing code with :guilabel:`Interrupt kernel`, clear a console's namespace with :guilabel:`Remove all variables`, or relaunch a fresh one with :guilabel:`Restart kernel`.
```

Fair enough, but I don't understand why you added "also"; its the first clause of the first sentence of the first top-level section, so I'm not sure what its referring to.

> As each Console is executed in a separate process, this won't affect the others or Spyder itself, and you will be able to easily test your code in a clean environment without disrupting your primary session.

Reviewer: > I don't think it's necessary to capitalize console.

Yeah, I decided on the convention of Console to refer to the pane and console to refer to the individual consoles a while back, but was really sloppy about following it here. Good catch.

> I don't see the need to mention that opening new consoles can affect Spyder itself.

I guess the intention was that it could lock up the program (as used to happen in Rstudio), but if this isn't a common user expectation these days then we can leave it out.

> Instead, I'd prefer to mention that new consoles won't affect the previous ones.

Yes, but anything that happens in that console also won't affect ones opened after it, so I'm not sure why it makes sense to single out only ones opened before; this sentence isn't just about opening consoles but working with them in general, and (per the previous sentence) running, stopping, restarting, etc in particular. Therefore, I've revised your proposal to reflect this, as well as a 1 <= n < inf number of consoles (instead of 2 <= n < inf).

```suggestion
As each console is executed in a separate process, this won't affect any others you've opened, and you will be able to easily test your code in a clean environment without disrupting your primary session.
```

> As each Console is executed in a separate process, this won't affect the others or Spyder itself, and you will be able to easily test your code in a clean environment without disrupting your primary session.

Reviewer: > Sidenote: I haven't thought about this point before, but now I see that it's very important to mention it. Thanks @CAM-Gerlach for adding it to the docs!

Its been two years since we added this so I don't remember the exact circumstances, but there's a good chance it was _you_ that suggested to _me_ that I mention this, heh.

.. _console-features:

==================
Supported features
==================

Any :guilabel:`IPython Console`, whether :ref:`external<connecting-external-kernel>` or started by Spyder, supports:

* Automatic code completion
* Real-time function calltips

> * Full GUI integration with the enhanced Spyder :doc:`debugging`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Full GUI integration with the enhanced Spyder :doc:`Debugger<debugging>`.
```

There you go

* The :doc:`variableexplorer`, with GUI-based editors for many built-in and third-party Python objects.
* Display of Matplotlib graphics in Spyder's :doc:`plots` pane, if the :guilabel:`Inline` backend is selected under :menuselection:`Preferences --> IPython console --> Graphics --> Graphics backend`, and inline in the console if :guilabel:`Mute inline plotting` is unchecked under the :guilabel:`Plots` pane's options menu.

.. image:: images/console/console-completion.png
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console, with a popup list of code completion guesses

> For information on the features, commands and capabilities built into IPython itself, see the `IPython documentation`_.

Reviewer: Actually that was in the original, we just moved it to more sensible location.

.. _IPython documentation: https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/overview.html

================
Special consoles
================

Spyder also supports several types of specialized consoles.
A `Cython console`_ allows you to use the Cython language to speed up your code and call C functions directly from Python.

> A `Sympy console`_ enables creating and displaying symbolic math expressions right inside Spyder.

Reviewer: Ideally we would use the same order as the menu, but the problem is the deprecated Pylab console is first, which probably isn't best to open our discussion with, and SymPy is ahead of Cython, so it makes sense to do this (I mistakenly thought it was the opposite).

Finally, a `Pylab console`_ loads common Numpy and Matplotlib functions by default; while this is deprecated and not recommended for new code, it can be used for older scripts that need it.

.. _Cython console: https://cython.org/#documentation
.. _Sympy console: https://docs.sympy.org/latest/index.html
.. _Pylab console: https://matplotlib.org/faq/usage_faq.html#matplotlib-pyplot-and-pylab-how-are-they-related

> .. image:: images/console/console-special.gif

Reviewer: Looks like this was resolved.

> .. image:: images/console/console-special.gif

Reviewer: Yes, I missed that. It should be possible to do in editing with a ~15-30 frame stillframe without having to redo the GIF.

> .. image:: images/console/console-special.gif

Reviewer: I'm assuming this was addressed; if not it can be in a followup if its really important.

   :alt: Spyder showing opening a new special Console

============
Options menu
============

> The options menu allows you to inspect your current environment variables and the contents of your system's ``PATH`` in Spyder :doc:`variableexplorer` browsers with :guilabel:`Show environment variables` and :guilabel:`Show sys.path contents` respectively, and you can have each kernel display how long it has been running with :guilabel:`Show elapsed time`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The options menu allows you to inspect your current environment variables and the contents of your system's ``PATH`` with :guilabel:`Show environment variables` and :guilabel:`Show sys.path contents` respectively.
And you can have each console display how long it has been running with :guilabel:`Show elapsed time`.
```

* Although it's technically correct that we use the Variable Explorer viewers to display env vars and `sys.path` contents, I think that's an implementation detail users don't need to be informed about.
* I moved the last part to a new sentence because, in my opinion, the original sentence is too long.
* I think the concept of elapsed time would be easier to grasp if we talk about consoles and not kernels (although technically it's that time corresponds to the kernel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The options menu allows you to inspect your current environment variables and the contents of your system's ``PATH`` with :guilabel:`Show environment variables` and :guilabel:`Show sys.path contents` respectively.
And you can have each console display how long it has been running with :guilabel:`Show elapsed time`.
```

> I think that's an implementation detail users don't need to be informed about.

Fair enough; we should restructure it a bit to make it simpler and avoid a runon sentence.

> I moved the last part to a new sentence because, in my opinion, the original sentence is too long.

I agree (thought about it myself), but does need a grammar fix since "And" cannot start a sentence.

> I think the concept of elapsed time would be easier to grasp if we talk about consoles and not kernels

I mean, this isn't really correct since restarting a kernel within the same console will restart the time, but if you really feel this is an overly specific detail we can leave it out (since we do mention kernels some, but don't explicitly explain the distinction between the console/frontend and the kernel/backend like we used to).

```suggestion
The options menu allows you to inspect your current environment variables (:guilabel:`Show environment variables`), and the contents of your system's ``PATH`` (:guilabel:`Show sys.path contents`).
In addition, you can have each console display how long it has been running with :guilabel:`Show elapsed time`.
```

.. image:: images/console/console-options-menu.png
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console with options menu

> You can also change the name of the current :guilabel:`IPython console` tab by simply double-clicking it, or with the :guilabel:`Rename tab` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also change the name of the current :guilabel:`IPython console` tab with the :guilabel:`Rename tab` option, or by simply double-clicking it.
```

I think we should mention first what's shown in the gif below.

Reviewer: Yes, but it makes that order makes it less clear what "it" refers to (the name? the tab? the option?), which is why I changed it originally.

> .. image:: images/console/console-rename.gif

Reviewer 2: Perhaps it'd be nice to introduce a longer pause before clicking on `Rename tab`? I mean, I think that passes too fast in the gif.

This is not critical (the gif can be understood as it is), so it's fine if you don't want to follow my suggestion.

Reviewer: I thought about that too (and the same with the Sympy console GIF), but it was pretty borderline so I didn't mention anything. No strong opinion on this one.

Reviewer: Seems fine now.

   :alt: Spyder IPython Console showing renaming console

.. _connecting-external-kernel:

==================================
Using external kernels with Spyder
==================================

> You can connect to external local and remote kernels (including those managed by QtConsole sessions or the Jupyter Notebook) through the :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu, the pane menu or its context menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can connect to external local and remote kernels (including those managed by the Jupyter Notebook or QtConsole) through the :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
```

* I'd prefer to mention the notebook first because it's way more relevant than QtConsole.
* I see no need to refer to QtConsole sessions (it's a technicality of minor importance, in my opinion).
* Again, I'd prefer to mention a single menu where this feature is present.

Reviewer: Agree with all. Tiny tweak:

```suggestion
You can connect to external local and remote kernels (including those managed by Jupyter Notebook or QtConsole) through the :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
```

> External kernels still support all of the :ref:`features<console-features>` of Spyder's IPython console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This sentence breaks the flow of this paragraph, so I'd prefer to remove it.

> To work with Spyder, a compatible version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package :ref:`must be installed <starting-kernel-problems-ref>` in the environment or machine in which the external kernel is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this feature to work, a compatible version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package :ref:`must be installed <starting-kernel-problems-ref>` in the environment or machine in which the external kernel is running.
```

I think it's easier to understand like this.

.. image:: images/console/console-menu.png
   :alt: Connect to external kernel dialog of the Spyder IPython console

Connect to a local kernel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. under Jupyter notebook),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. one started by the Jupyter notebook),
```

Be more specific for clarity.

Reviewer: Agreed. Tiny wording tweak as above (remove "the"), 

```suggestion
To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. one started by Jupyter notebook),
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Run ``%connect_info`` in your notebook to get the information of its kernel connection file.

```

* I think to understand the rest of this section is critical to mention how to get the kernel connection file. That's why I suggested to add another entry to this list.
* Below this item it'd be nice to add an screenshot like this:

    ![Selección_076](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/365293/102672354-88a24800-415e-11eb-825b-bc8c545e96cf.png)

    As you can see, I highlighted the file we tell people they need to look for in next entry.

Reviewer: Actually, for local consoles, this step actually makes the next one unnecessary. As my testing confirm, for local Jupyter kernels in both QtConsole and Jupyter, users can use this command right inside their existing session and paste the selected filename directly in the dialog, rather than having to do all the complex and potentially confusing items suggested in the next step. Therefore, the latter can be eliminated entirely, and this step clarified.

Also, we should clarify that this command can be run either in a notebook, or in any Jupyter kernel (QtConsole, etc). I can add a screenshot as you suggest (though it will also be shown in the GIF), or simply use yours (its about the right size, and there aren't any major quality problems with it).

Rewrote to fix the wording and clarify several points:

```suggestion
#. Run ``%connect_info`` in the notebook or console you want to connect to get the name of its kernel connection file, shown after ``jupyter <app> --existing``, that you'll need for the next step.

```

> #. Note the location of the kernel connection file (:file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernel-{pid}.json`) of the kernel you are running, or its process ID (PID).
> 
>    You can get :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}` by executing ``jupyter --runtime-dir`` in the same Python environment as the kernel.
>    Usually, the connection file you are looking for will be one of the newest in this directory, corresponding to the time you started the external kernel.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As discussed above, all of this is superfluous for local kernels if we follow your suggestion instead; the filename can be copied and pasted directly.

> #. In Spyder, click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Console` menu or the :guilabel:`IPython Console` pane's "Gear" menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. In Spyder, click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Console` menu.
```

Mention a single menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In Spyder, click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
```

I got the menu name wrong

> #. Browse for or enter the path to the :guilabel:`Connection file` from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Paste the name of the :guilabel:`Connection file` from the previous step.
```

This can be simplified a bit following the above

>    As a convenience, kernel ID numbers (e.g. ``1234``) entered in the connection file path field will be expanded to the full path to the file, :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernal-{id}.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   As a convenience, kernel ID numbers (e.g. ``1234``) entered in the connection file path field will be expanded to the full path of the file, :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernal-{id}.json`.
```

I think this needs to be `of` instead of `to` (not really sure).

Reviewer: "to" is also technically correct, but is repetitive so I agree "of" is better

#. Click :guilabel:`OK` to connect to the kernel.

(Gif of connecting to local kernel SSH ->CAM)

Connect to a remote kernel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to a kernel on a remote machine,

> #. Launch an IPython kernel on the remote host if one is not already running, with ``python -m spyder_kernels.console``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Launch a Spyder kernel on the remote host if one is not already running, with ``python -m spyder_kernels.console``.
```

We don't rely on pure IPython kernels anymore.

#. Copy the kernel's connection file (:file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernel-{pid}.json`) to the machine you're running Spyder on.

   You can get :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}` by executing ``jupyter --runtime-dir`` in the same Python environment as the kernel.
   Usually, the connection file you are looking for will be one of the newest in this directory, corresponding to the time you started the external kernel.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Console` menu or the :guilabel:`IPython Console` pane's "Gear" menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Console` menu.
```

Mention a single menu for simplicity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
```

Fix the name of the menu (my mistake)

#. Browse for or enter the path to the connection file from the previous step.

   As a convenience, kernel ID numbers (e.g. ``1234``) entered in the connection file path field will be expanded to :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernal-{id}.json` on your local machine, if you've copied the connection file there.

#. Check the :guilabel:`This is a remote kernel (via SSH)` box and type the full hostname you're connecting to (in the form :file:`{username}@{hostname}:{port-number}`).

>    Then, enter *either* :file:`{username}`'s password on the remote machine, or your user SSH keyfile (typically :file:`.perm`) (only one is needed to connect), and press :guilabel:`OK`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Then, enter *either* :file:`{username}`'s password on the remote machine, or your user SSH keyfile (typically a  :file:`.perm` file) (only one is needed to connect), and press :guilabel:`OK`.
```

Small clarification.

>    The port number is the one on which the SSH daemon (``sshd``) is running, typically 22 unless you or your administrator has configured it otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The port number is the one on which the SSH daemon (``sshd``) on your server is running, typically 22 unless you or your administrator has configured it otherwise.
```

Small clarification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Port` is the port number on your remote machine that the SSH daemon (``sshd``) is listening on, typically 22 unless you or your administrator has configured it otherwise.
```

Some further clarification (its of course correct to call the remote machine a server in technical SSH terminology, but its best to avoid potentially confusing terms as the user might not consider it such and just use local and remote).

(Gif of connecting to remote kernel SSH ->CAM)

> For more technical details about connecting to remote IPython kernels, see the `Connecting to a remote kernel`_ page in the IPython Cookbook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more technical details about connecting to remote kernels, see the `Connecting to a remote kernel`_ page in the IPython Cookbook.
```

This is to not confuse users (give that we talk about `Spyder kernels` above).

> Just remember to enter the appropriate details into Spyder's :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog instead of launching a new frontend on the client with ``--existing``.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what this sentence is about. Could you rephrase it?

Reviewer: Its basically saying to enter the details into Spyder's dialog instead of using IPython as the frontend, but I agree its confusing. As this is an advanced topic (as mentioned in the previous sentence), I think its best to just eliminate this sentence since we already explain it better above.

```suggestion
```

.. image:: images/console/console-rename.gif
   :alt: Spyder IPython Console showing renaming console

.. _connecting-external-kernel:

==================================
Using external kernels with Spyder
==================================

You can connect to external local and remote kernels (including those managed by Jupyter Notebook or QtConsole) through the :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` dialog under the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu.
For this feature to work, a compatible version of the ``spyder-kernels`` package :ref:`must be installed <starting-kernel-problems-ref>` in the environment or machine in which the external kernel is running.

.. image:: images/console/console-menu.png
   :alt: Connect to external kernel dialog of the Spyder IPython console

Connect to a local kernel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to a local kernel that is already running (e.g. one started by Jupyter notebook),

#. Run ``%connect_info`` in the notebook or console you want to connect to, and copy the name of its kernel connection file, shown after ``jupyter <app> --existing``.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-local-step1.gif

Reviewer 2: I think this gif should start from the point where you can actually read the text shown in the notebook. The notebook interface is easily recognizable by everyone, so I don't see the need to start with showing it in the browser.

That would save like a second and half from this gif.

Reviewer: Okay, sure. I can edit it out.

Reviewer: Done

      :alt: Running connect_info in a Jupyter notebook

#. In Spyder, click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu, and paste the name of the :guilabel:`Connection file` from the previous step.

   As a convenience, kernel ID numbers (e.g. ``1234``) entered in the connection file path field will be expanded to the full path of the file, i.e. :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernal-{id}.json`.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-local-step2.gif

Reviewer 2: Since it's not possible to see what menu entry you're clicking at the beginning of the gif to bring the `Connect to kernel` dialog, I suggest to film this gif with a much smaller screen resolution (for instance, the one @juanis2112 used for the hero screenshot of this pane).

That would also avoid the time spent in zooming in to show the dialog.

Reviewer: If I changed the screen resolution I would need to redo all the GIFs to match, which isn't possible right now as I'm on a trip visiting family and don't have access to the machine I set up to run a remote kernel on. However, I can edit it to zoom in at the beginning before it shows the Consoles menu, so its easily readable, and then just pan across to show the kernel dialog, and I can crank up the speed of the zooms/moves and increase the frame rate to match, so they take up less time but still look smooth.

Reviewer: Actually, I do have a Pi with me, so given a bit of time I think I can get it set up to work, if its worth doing every GIF again.

Reviewer: Also, to note, @juanis2112 actually has a much higher resolution than I do because she has a HiDPI screen, the UI is just scaled via macOS to appear as if it were on a much smaller one. I can simulate something sort of similar on my Win 8.1 machine, so we don't have to use overly low source resolutions for the GIFs, but the UI doesn't look nearly as good on Windows and a number of things are not rendered well, so I think I just have to go with the true 720p option:

UI scaled to max via OS:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17051931/103042539-fd52f900-4547-11eb-85f0-0c3a5d3aceda.png)

Monitor downsampled to 1280 x 720:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17051931/103042645-5589fb00-4548-11eb-9667-1b081df03430.png)

Reviewer: I redid this as specified above, which despite a long wait I didn't receive feedback otherwise on, so this should be addressed for now

      :alt: Copying the connection filename into Spyder's dialog

#. Click :guilabel:`OK` to connect to the kernel.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-local-step3.gif

Reviewer 2: I suggest to only print `test_var` in this gif. The first `print` seems unnecessary.

Also, if you can use a smaller screen resolution would be nice to see if you can avoid the panning you need to do to go to the console.

Reviewer: Both good points, it just will require some time to get everything set up here to redo everything, so given family commitments they probably won't be ready until tomorrow (assuming I can get everything to work).

Reviewer: Redone to fix

      :alt: Connecting to the kernel and running basic commands.

Connect to a remote kernel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to a kernel on a remote machine,

#. Launch a Spyder kernel on the remote host if one is not already running, with ``python -m spyder_kernels.console``.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-remote-step1.gif

Reviewer 2: I suggest to run `conda activate spyderenv` instead of `source /~spyderenv` because that has been the default way to activate envs for a couple of years, I think.

The rest looks good to me.

Reviewer 2: Besides, what do you think about also using `nohup` to start the kernel? That way you could close your remote session, or reuse it for the gif below (instead of using two sessions, as you're doing below).

Reviewer: > I suggest to run `conda activate spyderenv` instead of `source /~spyderenv` because that has been the default way to activate envs for a couple of years, I think.

I'm not using `conda` at all, its standard `venv`, since its on a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian.

> Besides, what do you think about also using `nohup` to start the kernel? That way you could close your remote session, or reuse it for the gif below (instead of using two sessions, as you're doing below).

I could, but it adds more complexity in exchange for a modest efficiency gain, so I don't know if its worth it. It also makes it more complicated for the user to terminate the kernel later, and might make it less clear which host is which.

Reviewer: I've resolved the portions of this that are applicable and run the two in two clearly separate consoles on the same screen, so this should be fixed.

      :alt: Staring a Spyder kernel on a remote machine

#. Copy the kernel's connection file (:file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernel-{pid}.json`) to the machine you're running Spyder on.

   You can get :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}` by executing ``jupyter --runtime-dir`` in the same Python environment as the kernel.
   Usually, the connection file you are looking for will be one of the newest in this directory, corresponding to the time you started the external kernel.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-remote-step2.gif

Reviewer 2: - I also suggest to use `conda activate` instead of `source` for this one.
- Also, if you don't agree with using `nohup`, I think it's better for you to select the terminal where you started the kernel with your mouse, to give people some time to realize the kernel lives in a different terminal (it took me some time to do that).

Reviewer: >     * I also suggest to use `conda activate` instead of `source` for this one.

See previous response; its a `venv`, not a `conda` env.

>     * Also, if you don't agree with using `nohup`, I think it's better for you to select the terminal where you started the kernel with your mouse, to give people some time to realize the kernel lives in a different terminal (it took me some time to do that).

Yeah, I agree this could be clearer; I'm just so used to Ctrl-Tabbing between console tabs that I didn't think of that till after I recorded the GIF. I can get everything set up and re-record it then.

Author: Can you slow down this one for a little bit and maybe add a longer pause at the end? It feels like everything is happening a little bit too fast and it's hard to read what's happening.

Reviewer: I didn't want to make the GIF too long, since its already pretty lengthy at 14 s, but I decreased it from 4x to 3x, and (coupled with the slowdown) and increased the pause at the end from a little over 1 s to close to 2.5 s. It's on the long side, but still just under 20 s, while hand-tuning ensured a minimal increase in file size.

      :alt: Using SCP to copy the connection file to the local machine

#. Click :guilabel:`Connect to an existing kernel` from the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu, and browse for or enter the path to the connection file from the previous step.

   As a convenience, kernel ID numbers (e.g. ``1234``) entered in the connection file path field will be expanded to :file:`{jupyter/runtime/dir/path}/kernal-{id}.json` on your local machine, if you've copied the connection file there.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-remote-step3.gif

Reviewer 2: - I also suggest for this one use a smaller screen resolution and avoid zooming.
- Also, there's practically no pause when clicking the browse button. So I think it's fine to pause for a bit at that point to see that the explorer dialog is open due to that.

Reviewer: Okay, I'll redo everything. It just will take some time.

As for the pause, I'm a little unsure where precisely you want it—you want me to freeze-frame the mouse hovered over it? With the button is depressed? Or what part, exactly? Thanks.

Reviewer: Redone, with a pause

      :alt: Opening the connect to kernel dialog and browsing for the path

> #. Check the :guilabel:`This is a remote kernel (via SSH)` box and type the full hostname you're connecting to (in the form :file:`{username}@{hostname}:{port-number}`).
>    Then, enter *either* :file:`{username}`'s password on the remote machine, or your user SSH keyfile (typically a  :file:`.perm` file); only one is needed to connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Check the :guilabel:`This is a remote kernel (via SSH)` box and enter the :guilabel:`Hostname` or IP address, username and port to connect to on the remote machine.
   Then, enter *either* :file:`{username}`'s password on the remote machine, or browse to an SSH keyfile (typically in the :file:`.ssh` directory in your home folder on the local machine, often called :file:`id_rsa` or similar) registered on it; only one is needed to connect.
   If you check :guilabel:`Save connection settings`, these details will be remembered and filled for you automatically next time you open the dialog.
```

Update explanation to reflect several UI changes and new features in Spyder 4. Also, better reflect what's happening in the GIF (as I used the pre-filled details to avoid the GIF getting too long with typing them all in, while allowing more time for the user to see what the completed result should look like).

Reviewer 2: I agree with this change.

>    :guilabel:`Port` is the port number on your remote machine that the SSH daemon (``sshd``) is listening on, typically 22 unless you or your administrator has configured it otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note that :guilabel:`Port` is the port number on your remote machine that the SSH daemon (``sshd``) is listening on, typically 22 unless you or your administrator has configured it otherwise.
```

Make it more clear this is a note.

Reviewer 2: This is fine for me too.

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-remote-step4.gif

Reviewer 2: Could you increase the zooming level of this one so the text is readable. The `This is remote kernel` checkbox you're activating is barely readable.

Reviewer: I can zoom it a little more, but not by much or it will start to crop out the dialog, and it will also not look as clean as the upsample won't be an integer ratio and it will start to subsample the pixels.

Reviewer: Originally I was going to show entering all the connection details (which is what I was trying to demonstrate with my mouse) but I was worried it would be too long so I just used the saved details instead. I agree it doesn't show that much; I mostly made it a GIF to make it consistent with the others. I wasn't too fond of it and was going to redo it actually entering all the details, but I must have forgotten when I was recording it. If you agree, I can redo it showing that, so its more clear what's going on (which also would avoid the need to move the cursor).

      :alt: Entering pre-filled SSH details into the connection dialog

#. Click :guilabel:`OK` to connect to the remote kernel

>    .. image:: images/console/console-connect-remote-step5.gif

Reviewer 2: I also suggest to find a way to avoid panning for this one.

Reviewer: As you've suggested previously, doing the GIF at a lower screen resolution should hopefully reduce or eliminate the need to pan.

Reviewer: Redone to fix

Using UMR to reload changed modules
===================================

> When working in an interactive session, Python only loads a module from its source file once, the first time it is ``import``-ed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working in an interactive session, Python only loads a module from its source file once, the first time it is imported.
```

I think that makes things more readable.

Spyder's :guilabel:`User Module Reloader` (UMR) automatically reloads modules right in your existing IPython consoles whenever they are modified and re-imported.

> With UMR enabled, you can test changes to your code without restarting the kernel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the UMR enabled, you can test changes to your code without restarting the kernel.
```

Seems missing.

Reviewer: Spelled out you'd use "the", but as an acronym you typically wouldn't, as is the case both in the actual UI text in Spyder ("UMR forces Python...", not "The UMR forces Python"), and elsewhere in the docs (`UMR is enabled by default`, not `The UMR is enabled by default`).

> .. image:: images/console/console-reload-modules.png

Reviewer 2: I know we talked about adding a screenshot for this, but it's really hard to understand what's happening on it. So I think we should remove it (sorry for making you waste your time @juanis2112).

Reviewer: Instead, we could just show a tight crop of the "reloaded modules" indication (from this screenshot or elsewhere), so users know what to look for with that and it doesn't take up much space.

Reviewer: 2/3rds of this screenshot is completely blank, taking up vertical space in the docs, and the feature it intends to highlight only takes up a single line, so I'd recommend either a tight crop as I suggested above, e.g. something like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17051931/102963747-8702b800-44af-11eb-99f3-5fd6e037dc15.png)

Or at least collapsing the vertical size of the console to just show the region of interest, e.g.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17051931/102963854-cdf0ad80-44af-11eb-9778-3592b77be6b6.png)

Thanks.

Reviewer: This was done, thanks.

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me too. Thanks @juanis2112!

   :alt: Spyder showing reloading modules in console

> UMR is enabled by default, and it will provide you with a red ``Reloaded modules:`` message in the console listing the files it has refreshed when it activates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UMR is enabled by default, and it will provide you with a red ``Reloaded modules:`` message in the console listing the files it has refreshed when it is activated.
```

Looks like a syntax error.

Reviewer: No, "is activated" refers to the state of it being passively enabled (i.e. in preferences), while "activates" refers to the verb of when it is actively triggers to reload a module, the latter of which is what is being referenced here (and FWIW that would be grammar rather than syntax)

> If desired, you can turn it and the message on or off, and prevent specific modules from being reloaded, under :menuselection:`Preferences --> Python interpreter --> User Module Reloader (UMR)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If desired, you can turn it on or off, and prevent specific modules from being reloaded, under :menuselection:`Preferences --> Python interpreter --> User Module Reloader (UMR)`.
```

It's a bit hard to read with `and the message` and I think it's not really important to mention that (because it can be seen in the screenshot below).

> .. image:: images/console/console-umr-preferences.png

Reviewer: It would be good to show the UMR excluded modules popup dialog with some example entries (e.g. `pandas, matplotlib`) overlaid in the space occupied by the Python interpreter selection (since this will change anyway).

Reviewer: Looks very good, thanks.

Reviewer 2: I have a suggestion about this. To show people where the `Set the list of excluded modules` dialog is obtained from, I think we should show the mouse over the `Set UMR excluded` button.

Reviewer: That would be ideal, but I'm not sure its important enough to redo the whole GIF over. However, since the mouse isn't in the frame at all, it could just be photoshopped in.

Reviewer: As mentioned above, this doesn't seem important enough to redo the whole thing over, especially not at this point
